# ALPS Connect Upload from ProSolution

**Background**

Produces data to populate the ALPS Connect system for uploading exam results for previous year learners to populate the provider reports and to provide data to ALPS on new learners enrolling into the current year which enables in year tracking, determines the cost of ALPS for the new year and ensures end of year provider reports can be produced.

**Summary**

ALPS Connect requires information on:

 - Students
 - Enrolments
 - Grades

ALPS does not recognise subjects by learning aims, but instead uses QAN titles to map the subjects. ALPS provide a mapping document which is integrated into the query to map the majority of subjects. Any subjects that do not map can be mapped manually (if an equivalent exists) or can be removed from Connect by deleting the lines.

> ALPS do not produce data on all types of level 3 qualifications so it would be better to not map something than to map it to a subject that is different as this may give misleading calculations.

**Setting Up**

1. Obtain the most up to date copy of the `QAN Mappings Document from ALPS` by contacting ALPS who will email it on request and import this into a table called `ALPS_QANAimMappings`. A version from 2018 is included.
2. Use scripts in the `Views and Stored Procedures` folder to create stored procedures and views (stored procedures are used to improve performance of the views)
3. Ensure the Config table is looking at the correct academic year and adjust as appropriate.
4. The Student script has a link to ProGeneral as accessed the areas of depravation table to determine if learners are disadvantaged or not. Update the link to this linked server as appropriate.

## Uploading Data

Run each view and copy and paste this information into ALPS Connect at [https://alps.education/](https://alps.education/) ensuring the correct year has been selected.

Look at errors and attempt to resolve - e.g.:

 - Expects an Extended Diploma to have a triple grade such as DDD but grade is D
 - Qualification has no QAN subject mapping

Once there are no errors the data can be saved and reports are then generated by ALPS and made available on Connect. These can be downloaded as PDFs and made available via the college intranet.
